// Status=review

At the center of the main window are a number of controls used when
making QSOs.  Controls not relevant to a particular mode or submode
may be "grayed out" (disabled) or removed from the display.

//.Misc Controls Center
image::misc-controls-center.png[align="center",alt="Misc Controls Center"]

* Check *Tx even* to transmit in even-numbered UTC minutes or
sequences, starting at 0.  Uncheck this box to transmit in the odd
sequences.  The correct selection is made automatically when you
double-click on a decoded text line, as described in the
<<TUTORIAL,Basic Operating Tutorial>>.

* The Tx and Rx audio frequencies can be set automatically by
double-clicking on decoded text or a signal in the waterfall.  They
can also be adjusted using the spinner controls.

* You can force Tx frequency to the current Rx frequency by clicking
the *Tx<-Rx* button, and vice-versa for *Rx<-Tx*.  The on-the-air
frequency of your lowest JT9 or JT65 tone is the sum of dial frequency
and audio Tx frequency.

* Check the box *Lock Tx=Rx* to make the frequencies always track one
another.

IMPORTANT: In general we do not recommend using *Lock Tx=Rx* since it
encourages poor radio etiquette when running a frequency.  With this
box checked, your own Tx frequency will move around following your
callers.

* For modes lacking a multi-decode feature, or when *Enable
VHF/UHF/Microwave features* has been checked on the *Settings ->
General* tab, the *F Tol* control sets a frequency toilerance range
over which decoding will be attempted, centered on the Rx frequency.

* The *Report* control lets you change a signal report that has been
inserted automatically. Typical reports for the various modes fall in
the range â€“30 to +20 dB.  Remember that JT65 reports saturate at an
upper limit of -1 dB.

TIP: Consider reducing power if your QSO partner reports your
signal above -5 dB in one of the _WSJT-X_ slow modes.  These are
supposed to be weak signal modes!

* In some circumstances, especially on VHF and higher bands, you can
select a supported submode of the active mode by using the *Submode*
control.  The *Sync* control sets a minimum threshold for establishing
time and frequency synchronization with a received signal.

* Spinner control *T/R xx s* sets sequence lengths for transmission
and reception in ISCAT, MSK144, and the fast JT9 modes.

* With *Split operation* activated on the *Settings -> Radio* tab, in
MSK144 and the fast JT9 submodes you can activate the spinner control
*Tx CQ nnn* by checking the box to its right.  The program will then
generate something like `CQ nnn K1ABC FN42` for your CQ message, where
`nnn` is the kHz portion of your current operating frequency.  Your CQ
message *Tx6* will then be transmitted at the calling frequency
selected in the *Tx CQ nnn* spinner control.  All other messages will
be transmitted at your current operating frequency.  On reception,
when you double-click on a message like `CQ nnn K1ABC FN42` your rig
will QSY to the specified frequency so you can call the station at his
specified response frequency.

* Checkboxes at bottom center of the main window control special
features for particular operating modes:

** *Sh* enables shorthand messages in JT4, JT65, and MSK144 modes

** *Fast* enables fast JT9 submodes

** *Auto Seq* enables auto-sequencing of Tx messages

** *Call 1st* enables automatic response to the first decoded
responder to your CQ

** *Tx6* toggles between two types of shorthand messages in JT4 mode