// Status=review

The following controls appear at the bottom of the Wide Graph window.
Decoding occurs only in the displayed frequency range; otherwise, with
the exceptions of *Start NNN Hz* and of *JT65 nnnn JT9* when operating
in JT9+JT65 mode, controls on the Wide Graph window have no effect on
the decoding process.

image::wide-graph-controls.png[align="center",alt="Wide Graph Controls"]

- *Bins/Pixel* controls the displayed frequency resolution.  Set this
value to 1 for the highest possible resolution, or to higher numbers
to compress the spectral display. Normal operation with a convenient
window size works well at 2 to 8 bins per pixel.

- *JT65 nnnn JT9* sets the dividing point (blue marker) for wide-band
decoding of JT65 and JT9 signals in *JT9+JT65* mode.  The decoder
looks for JT65 signals everywhere, but JT9 signals only above this
frequency. This setting is stored separately for each band.

- *Start nnn Hz* sets the low-frequency starting point of the
waterfall frequency scale.

- *N Avg* is the number of successive spectra to be averaged before
updating the display.  Values around 5 are suitable for normal JT9 and
JT65 operation.  Adjust *N Avg* to make the waterfall move faster or
slower, as desired.

- A dropdown list below the *Palette* label lets you select from a
wide range of waterfall color palettes.  

- Click *Adjust* to activate a window that allows you to create a
user-defined palette.

- Check *Flatten* if you want _WSJT-X_ to compensate for a sloping or
uneven response across the received passband.  For this feature to
work properly, you should restrict the range of displayed frequencies
so that only the active part of the spectrum is shown.

- Select *Current* or *Cumulative* for the spectrum displayed in the
bottom one-third of the Wide Graph window.  *Current* is the average
spectrum over the most recent *N Avg* FFT calculations.  *Cumulative*
is the average spectrum since the start of the present UTC minute.
*Linear Avg* is useful in JT4 mode, especially when short-form
messages are used.

- Four sliders control reference levels and scaling for waterfall
colors and the spectrum plot.  Values around midscale are usually
about right, depending on the input signal level, the chosen palette,
and your own preferences. Hover the mouse over a control to display a
tip reminding you of its function.

- *Smoothing* is active only when *Linear Average* has been selected.
Smoothing the displayed spectrum over more than one bin can enhance
your ability to detect weak EME signals with Doppler spread more than
a few Hz.

[[CONTROLS_FAST]]
=== Fast Graph

The waterfall palette used for the Fast Graph is the same as the one
selected on the Wide Graph.  Three sliders at the bottom of the Fast
Graph window can be used to optimize gain and zero-offset for the
displayed information.  Hover the mouse over a control to display a
tip reminding you of its function.  Clicking the *Auto Level* button
will produce reasonable settings as a starting point.

image::fast-graph-controls.png[align="center",alt="Fast Graph Controls"]

[[CONTROLS_ECHO]]
=== Echo Graph

The following controls appear at the bottom of the Echo Graph:

image::echo-graph-controls.png[align="center",alt="EchoGraph Controls"]

- *Bins/Pixel* controls the displayed frequency resolution.  Set this
value to 1 for the highest possible resolution, or to higher numbers
to compress the spectral display.

- *Gain* and *Zero* sliders control scaling and offset of plotted
spectra.

- *Smooth* values greater than 0 apply running averages to the plotted
spectra, thereby smoothing the curves over multiple bins.

- Label *N* shows the number of echo pulses averaged.

- Click the *Colors* button to cycle through 6 possible choices of
color and line width for the plots.

[[CONTROLS_MISCELLANEOUS]]
=== Miscellaneous

Most windows can be resized as desired.  If you are short of screen
space you can make the Main Window and Wide Graph smaller by hiding
some controls and labels.  To enable this feature type *Ctrl+M* with
focus on the appropriate window.  (For the Main Window you can select
*Hide menus and labels* on the *View* menu.)  Type *Ctrl+M* again
to make the controls visible once more.
