// Status=review

Controls related to frequency selection, received audio level, the
station being called, and date and time are found at lower left of the
main window:

//.Misc Controls Left
image::misc-main-ui.png[align="center",alt="Misc Menu Items"]

* A drop-down list of frequencies and bands at upper left lets you
select the operating band and sets dial frequency to a value taken
from the *Frequencies* tab on the *Settings* window.  If CAT control
is active the radio's dial frequency will be set accordingly; if not,
you must tune the radio manually.

* Alternatively, you can enter a frequency (in MHz) or band name in
recognized ADIF format, for example 630m, 20m, or 70cm.  The band-name
format works only if a working frequency has been set for that band
and mode, in which case the first such match is selected.

* You can also enter a frequency increment in kHz above the currently
displayed integer MHz. For example, if the displayed frequency is
10,368.100, enter `165k` (don't forget the `k`!) to QSY to 10,368.165.

* A small colored circle appears in green if the CAT control is
activated and functional.  The green circle contains the character S
if the rig is detected to be in *Split* mode.  The circle becomes red
if you have requested CAT control but communication with the radio has
been lost.

TIP: Many Icom rigs cannot be queried for split status, current VFO or
split transmit frequency. When using _WSJT-X_ with such radios you
should not change the current VFO, split status or dial frequency
using controls on the radio.

* If *DX Grid* contains a valid Maidenhead locator, the corresponding
great-circle azimuth and distance from your location are displayed.

* The program can maintain a database of callsigns and locators for
future reference.  Click *Add* to insert the present call and locator
in the database; click *Lookup* to retrieve the locator for a
previously stored call.  This feature is mainly useful for situations
in which the number of active stations is modest and reasonably
stable, such as EME (Earth-Moon-Earth) communication.  The callsign
file name is `CALL3.TXT`.
