_WSJT-X_ is programmed to cooperate closely with several other useful
programs.  

* {dxlsuite}, {omnirig}, and {hrd} were described in the section on
<<RADIO,rig control>>.

* {pskreporter}, by Philip Gladstone, is a web server that gathers
reception reports sent by various other programs, including _WSJT-X_.
The information is made available in near real time on a world map,
and also as statistical summaries of various kinds.  A number of
options are available to the user; for example, you can request a map
showing world-wide JT65 activity on all amateur bands over the
past hour.  Such a map might look like this, where different colors
represent different bands:

image::psk-reporter.png[align="left",alt="PSK Reporter"]

The following screen shot shows the PSK Reporter map configured to
show MSK144 reports:

image::psk-reporter_2.png[align="left",alt="PSK Reporter"]

* {jtalert}, by VK3AMA, is available only for Windows.  It provides
many operating aids including automatic logging to several third-party
logging programs, audio and visual alerts following a number of
optional alert conditions (decoding of a new DXCC, new state, etc.),
and convenient direct access to web services such as callsign lookup.

image::jtalert.png[align="left",alt="JTAlert-X image"]

* {alarmejt}, by F5JMH, is available only for Linux.  The program keeps
its own logbook.  It fetches contact information from _WSJT-X_ and
provides visual alerts for new DXCC entities and grid squares on the
current band, as well as other options.

* {jtbridge}, by SM0THU, is available for OS X. It works together with
logging applications Aether, MacLoggerDX, RUMlog or RUMlogNG.  It
checks QSO and QSL status of the call and DXCC entity, as well as many
other features.