////
Questions:
 Should be short one liners ending with ?::
 If your question is too long for one line, consider multiple questions or rephrase

Answers:
 Can be bullet or paragraphs. Bullets make for easier reading.

Bullet Usage:
 *  = a circle bullet single intent
 ** = circle bullet double indent
 .  = should be avoided as the questions are numbered
 .. = bullet a, b, c, and so on, double indent

Alternatives: Use a * Bullet, followed by .. for example, then have
a multi-section answer using the * as the section header
 
 * Section Header 1
 .. Possible Answer a
 .. Possible Answer b
 * Section Header 2
 .. Possible Answer a
 .. Possible Answer b
 
Link Usage:
 Use the common/links.adoc for href links to maintain consistency. Try to avoid
 apostrophes ` or ' as it breaks AsciiDoc syntax without special escaping 
 and they do not translate into other languages well.

////
[qanda]
My displayed spectrum is flatter when I do not check the *Flatten* box. What's wrong?::

_WSJT-X_ does not expect a steep filter edge within the displayed
passband. Use a wider IF filter or reduce the displayed passband by
decreasing *Bins/Pixel*, increasing *Start*, or reducing the width of
the *Wide Graph*.  You might also choose to re-center the filter
passband, if such control is available.

How should I configure _WSJT-X_ to run multiple instances?::

Start _WSJT-X_ from a command-prompt window, assigning each instance a
unique identifier as in the following two-instance example.  This
procedure will isolate the *Settings* file and the writable file
location for each instance of _WSJT-X_.

 wsjtx --rig-name=TS2000
 wsjtx --rig-name=FT847

When setting up rig control through _Omni-Rig_, something goes wrong
when I click *Test CAT*.  What can I do about it?::

_Omni-Rig_ apparently has a bug that appears when you click *Test
CAT*.  Forget using *Test CAT* and just click *OK*.  _Omni-Rig_ then
behaves normally.

I am using _WSJT-X_ with _Ham Radio Deluxe_.  All seems well until I
start HRD Logbook or DM780 running in parallel; then CAT control
becomes unreliable.::

You may see delays up to 20 seconds or so in frequency changes or
other radio commands, due to a bug in HRD.  HRD folks are aware of the
problem, and are working to resolve it.

I am running _WSJT-X_ under Ubuntu.  The program starts, but menu bar is missing from the top of the main window and the hot-keys don't work.::

Ubuntu's new "`Unity`" desktop puts the menu for the currently active
window at the top of the primary display screen.  You can restore menu
bars to their traditional locations by typing the following in a
command-prompt window:

 sudo apt remove appmenu-qt5

+
Alternatively, you can disable the common menu bar for just _WSJT-X_
by starting the application with the environment variable
QT_QPA_PLATFORMTHEME set to empty (the space after the '=' character
is necessary):

 QT_QPA_PLATFORMTHEME= wsjtx
