// Status=review

[[FIG_BAND_SETTINGS]]
image::settings-frequencies.png[align="center",alt="Frequency Screen"]

_Working Frequencies_: By default the *Working Frequencies* table
contains a list of frequencies conventionally used for modes JT4, JT9,
JT65, MSK144, WSPR, and Echo.  Conventions may change with time or
by user preference; you can modify the frequency table as desired.

- To change an existing entry, double-click to edit it, type a desired
frequency in MHz or select from the drop down list of options, then
hit *Enter* on the keyboard.  The program will format your changed
entry appropriately.

- To add a new entry, right-click anywhere on the frequency table and
select *Insert*.  Enter a frequency in MHz in the pop-up box and
select the desired mode (or leave the Mode selection as *All*).  Then
click *OK*.  The table may include more than one frequency for a given
band.

- To delete an entry, right-click it and select *Delete*, multiple
entries can be deleted in a single operation by selecting them before
right-clicking.

- Right-click any entry and click *Reset* button to return the table
to its default configuration.

Other  more  advanced  maintenance  operations are  available  on  the
right-click context menu that should be self-explanatory.

_Frequency Calibration_: If you have calibrated your radio using WWV
or other reliable frequency references, or perhaps with the technique
described in {fmt_wspr}, enter the measured values for _Intercept_ A
and _Slope_ B in the equation

 Dial error = A + B*f

where "`Dial error`" and A are in Hz, f is frequency in MHz, and B is
in parts per million (ppm). Frequency values sent to the radio and
received from it will then be adjusted so that frequencies displayed
by _WSJT-X_ are accurate.

_Station Information_: You can save *Band*, *Offset* and *Antenna
Description* information for your station.  The antenna information
will be included in reception reports sent to {pskreporter}.  By
default the frequency offset for each band is zero.  Nonzero offsets
may be added if (for example) a <<VHF_SETUP,transverter>> is in use.

- To simplify things you might want to delete any unwanted bands --
for example, bands where you have no equipment.  Then click on a
*Frequency* entry and type *Ctrl+A* to "`select all,`" and
drag-and-drop the entries onto the _Station Information_ table.  You
can then add any transverter offsets and antenna details.

- To avoid typing the same information many times, you can
drag-and-drop entries between the lines of the _Station Information_
table.

- When all settings have been configured to your liking, click *OK* to
dismiss the *Settings* window.
