// Status=review

image::settings-audio.png[align="center",alt="_WSJT-X_ Audio Configuration Screen"]

Select the *Audio* tab to configure your sound system.

- _Soundcard_: Select the audio devices to be used for *Input* and
*Output*.  Usually the *Mono* settings will suffice, but in special
cases you can choose *Left*, *Right*, or *Both* stereo channels.

- Be sure that your audio device is configured to sample at 48000 Hz,
16 bits.


IMPORTANT: If you select the audio output device that is also your
computer's default audio device, be sure to turn off all system sounds
to prevent inadvertently transmitting them over the air.  

NOTE: Windows Vista and later may configure audio devices using
the Texas Instruments PCM2900 series CODEC for microphone input rather
line input.  (This chip is used in many radios with built-in USB
CODECs, as well as various other audio interfaces.)  If you are using
such a device, be sure to set the mic level in the Recording Device
Properties to 0 dB.

- _Save Directory_: _WSJT-X_ can save its received audio sequences as
`.wav` files.  A default directory for these files is provided; you
can select another location if desired.

- _AzEl Directory_: A file named `azel.dat` will appear in the
specified directory.  The file contains information usable by another
program for automatic tracking of the Sun or Moon, as well as
calculated Doppler shift for the specified EME path.  The file is
updated once per second whenever the <<ASTRODATA,Astronomical Data>>
window is displayed.

- _Remember power settings by band_: Checking either of these will
cause _WSJT-X_ to remember the *Pwr* slider setting for that operation
on a band-by-band basis.  For example, when *Tune* is checked here and
you click the *Tune* button on the main window, the power slider will
change to the most recent setting used for *Tune* on the band in use.
