// Status=review
.Receiver Noise Level

- If it is not already highlighted in green, click the *Monitor*
button to start normal receive operation.  

- Be sure your transceiver is set to *USB* (or *USB Data*) mode.

- Use the receiver gain controls and/or the computer's audio mixer
controls to set the background noise level (scale at lower left of
main window) to around 30 dB when no signals are present.  It is
usually best to turn AGC off or reduce the RF gain control to minimize
AGC action.

.Bandwidth and Frequency Setting

- If your transceiver offers more than one bandwidth setting in USB
mode, it may be advantageous to choose the widest one possible, up to
about 5 kHz.  This choice has the desirable effect of allowing the
*Wide Graph* (waterfall and 2D spectrum) to display the conventional
JT65 and JT9 sub-bands simultaneously on most HF bands.  Further
details are provided in the <<TUTORIAL,Basic Operating Tutorial>>.  A
wider displayed bandwidth may also be helpful at VHF and above, where
FT8, JT4, JT65, and QRA64 signals may be found over much wider ranges
of frequencies.

- If you have only a standard SSB filter you won’t be able to display
more than about 2.7 kHz bandwidth.  Depending on the exact dial
frequency setting, on HF bands you can display the full sub-band
generally used for one mode.

- Of course, you might prefer to concentrate on one mode at a time,
setting your dial frequency to (say) 14.074 for FT8, 14.076 for JT65,
or 14.078 for JT9.  Present conventions have the nominal JT9 dial
frequency 2 kHz higher than the JT65 dial frequency on most bands, and
the FT8 frequency 2 kHz lower.

.Transmitter Audio Level

* Click the *Tune* button on the main screen to switch the
radio into transmit mode and generate a steady audio tone. 

* Listen to the generated audio tone using your radio’s *Monitor*
facility. The transmitted tone should be perfectly smooth, with no
clicks or glitches.  Make sure that this is true even when you
simultaneously use the computer to do other tasks such as email, web
browsing, etc.

* Adjust the *Pwr* slider (at right edge of main window) downward from
its maximum until the RF output from your transmitter falls slightly.
This is generally a good level for audio drive.

* Toggle the *Tune* button once more or click *Halt Tx* to stop your
test transmission.
